# Script for GovHack video

Greetings! I'm Wilko, this is my teammate Bryan, and we are team Milk is Optional. Let's turn the clock back a few years to 2019. I was just graduating high school, [some major event], and Australia's eastern seaboard was being ravaged by bushfires. Walk into any supermarket, and you were greeted by an empty toilet paper aisle. Worse, entire towns and communities were cut off from vital supplies. The same trend is visible throughout 2022 - with panic buying before every lockdown - and last year's floods left towns stranded.

Our road network is integral to Australia's supply corridors, and as such it must have a high degree of resiliency. Our project - FreightRelocate - tackles National Freight Data Hub's challenge to improve this resiliency, by creating an overview of what regions have been prone to flooding and bushfires in the past and are likely to be affected by disasters in the future. It is intended to be used within trucking companies, though it could be used at a state or municipality level for identifying the most important trade routes.

As you can see, FreightRelocate displays key freight infrastructure starting off with the most popular heavy vehicle routes according to 2020 road census data. You can also view rest stop locations and overlay disaster maps such as the 2011 flood inundation map displayed here. With this information, freight companies could effectively plan alternative routes to bypass likely affected areas. [Show example of an alternative route]

We had larger plans that we were not able to realise within the 46 hours of this competition. The largest feature missing is allowing the user to enter and store routes - with this information, the software would be able to show which sections of routes are most at-risk and give alternative routing information. In fact, using data from the Bureau of Meteorology, we could predict what routes are most likely to close and in what order. These sources of data, including information about the load, could be used to effectively triage routes. Additionally, the current system utalises data for Queensland, but in future could be expanded to be implemented as a national system.

As always, more information, such as future expansions and implementation details, is available on our repository. You can have a play with our prototype by visiting freightrelocate.xyz. Thank you for your time.
